gh-119786: add code object doc, inline locations.md into it (#126832)
python/cpython: InternalDocs/code_objects.md

(`codeobject.co_positions`)[https://docs.python.org/dev/reference/datamodel.html#codeobject.co_positions]
which returns an iterator of `({line}, {endline}, {column}, {endcolumn})` tuples,
one per instruction.
There is also `co_lines()` which returns an iterator of `({start}, {end}, {line})` tuples,
where `{start}` and `{end}` are bytecode offsets.
The latter is described by [`PEP 626`](https://peps.python.org/pep-0626/); it is more
compact, but doesn't return end line numbers or column offsets.
From C code, you need to call
[`PyCode_Addr2Location`](https://docs.python.org/dev/c-api/code.html#c.PyCode_Addr2Location).

As the locations table is only consulted by exception handling (to set ``tb_lineno``)
and by tracing (to pass the line number to the tracing function), lookup is not
performance critical.
In order to reduce the overhead during tracing, the mapping from instruction offset to
line number is cached in the ``_co_linearray`` field.

### Format of the locations table

The `co_linetable` bytes object of code objects contains a compact
representation of the source code positions of instructions, which are
returned by the `co_positions()` iterator.

> [!NOTE]

> > Not to be confused by [`Objects/lnotab_notes.txt`](Objects/lnotab_notes.txt),
> > which describes the 3.10 format, that stores only that start line for each instruction.
> > For backwards compatibility this format is still supported by the `co_lnotab` property.

Reviewer: (Take or leave my suggested rewording here, but the link is a 404 :-)

```suggestion
> `co_linetable` is not to be confused with `co_lnotab`.
> For backwards compatibility, `co_lnotab` stores the format
> as it existed in Python 3.10 and lower: this older format
> stores only the start line for each instruction.
> See [`Objects/lnotab_notes.txt`](../Objects/lnotab_notes.txt) for more details.
```

`co_linetable` consists of a sequence of location entries.

> Each entry starts with a byte with the most significant bit set, followed by zero or more bytes with most significant bit unset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each entry starts with a byte with the most significant bit set, followed by zero or more bytes with the most significant bit unset.
```

Each entry contains the following information:
* The number of code units covered by this entry (length)
* The start line
* The end line
* The start column
* The end column

The first byte has the following format:

Bit 7 | Bits 3-6 | Bits 0-2
 ---- | ---- | ----
 1 | Code | Length (in code units) - 1

The codes are enumerated in the `_PyCodeLocationInfoKind` enum.

> ## Variable length integer encodings
> 
> Integers are often encoded using a variable length integer encoding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Variable-length integer encodings

Integers are often encoded using a variable-length integer encoding
```

> ### Unsigned integers (varint)

Reviewer: (I assume this is a reference to a variable/type name rather than a misspelling of "variant" ;-)

```suggestion
### Unsigned integers (`varint`)
```

Author: It's short for variable-length integer, essentially the name of an encoding method. I think it's fine to backtick it.

> Unsigned integers are encoded in 6 bit chunks, least significant first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unsigned integers are encoded in 6-bit chunks, least significant first.
```

Each chunk but the last has bit 6 set.
For example:

* 63 is encoded as `0x3f`
* 200 is encoded as `0x48`, `0x03`

> ### Signed integers (svarint)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Signed integers (`svarint`)
```

# Code objects

A `CodeObject` is a builtin Python type that represents a compiled executable,
such as a compiled function or class.
It contains a sequence of bytecode instructions along with its associated
metadata: data which is necessary to execute the bytecode instructions (such
as the values of the constants they access) or context information such as
the source code location, which is useful for debuggers and other tools.

Since 3.11, the final field of the `PyCodeObject` C struct is an array
of indeterminate length containing the bytecode, `code->co_code_adaptive`.
(In older versions the code object was a
[`bytes`](https://docs.python.org/dev/library/stdtypes.html#bytes)
object, `code->co_code`; this was changed to save an allocation and to
allow it to be mutated.)

Code objects are typically produced by the bytecode [compiler](compiler.md),
although they are often written to disk by one process and read back in by another.
The disk version of a code object is serialized using the
[marshal](https://docs.python.org/dev/library/marshal.html) protocol.
Some code objects are pre-loaded into the interpreter using

> [`Tools/build/deepfreeze.py`](../Tools/build/deepfreeze.py),

Reviewer 2: Not any more. We only freeze in the pycs, all code objects are created at runtime.

a 4-number source location for every instruction, indicating the precise line
and column at which it begins and ends. This is a significant amount of data,
so a compact format is very important.

Note that traceback objects don't store all this information -- they store the start line
number, for backward compatibility, and the "last instruction" value.
The rest can be computed from the last instruction (`tb_lasti`) with the help of the
locations table.  For Python code, there is a convenience method
(`codeobject.co_positions`)[https://docs.python.org/dev/reference/datamodel.html#codeobject.co_positions]
which returns an iterator of `({line}, {endline}, {column}, {endcolumn})` tuples,
one per instruction.
There is also `co_lines()` which returns an iterator of `({start}, {end}, {line})` tuples,
where `{start}` and `{end}` are bytecode offsets.
The latter is described by [`PEP 626`](https://peps.python.org/pep-0626/); it is more
compact, but doesn't return end line numbers or column offsets.
From C code, you need to call
[`PyCode_Addr2Location`](https://docs.python.org/dev/c-api/code.html#c.PyCode_Addr2Location).

> As the locations table is only consulted by exception handling (to set ``tb_lineno``)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the locations table is only consulted when displaying tracebacks (to set ``tb_lineno``)
```
We don't touch the location table during stack unwinding, which is what I took "exception handling" to mean.

and by tracing (to pass the line number to the tracing function), lookup is not
performance critical.
In order to reduce the overhead during tracing, the mapping from instruction offset to
line number is cached in the ``_co_linearray`` field.

### Format of the locations table

The `co_linetable` bytes object of code objects contains a compact
representation of the source code positions of instructions, which are
returned by the `co_positions()` iterator.

> [!NOTE]
> `co_linetable` is not to be confused with `co_lnotab`.

> > For backwards compatibility, `co_lnotab` stores the format

Reviewer 2: Note that `co_lnotab` is lazily created from `co_linetable` when requested
